HTTP REVIEW

HTTP
HTTP sits on top of TCP, which provides guaranteed delivery (you can think of it as a pipe).
  transmission control protocol, verifies that all packets of data are received
HTTP is a plain text messaging format, an agreement of how client and server should communicate
What are the components of an HTTP request?
  method, path, headers, body
What are the components of an HTTP response?
  status, headers, body
Identify the components of a URL (uniform resource locator)
  scheme, host, port, path, query string (query parameters)
Describe requests, responses, and their parts: method, path, headers, and body.
Know what 2xx, 3xx, 4xx, and 5xx status code ranges mean.
  200 OK (request handled successfully)
  301
  302 Found (redirects to new URL of resource in location response header)
  404 Not Found (resource unavailable)
  500 Internal Server Error (can be syntax error)
Compare GET and POST. What's the difference in semantics? How do you choose one over the other?
  GET asks to retrieve resources, in links or the address bar
  POST sends data to server in body, then requests from location specified in response header
What does it mean for a request to be idempotent?
  it can be made over and over again with the same result on the server

Statelessness
What does it mean that HTTP is a stateless protocol? Explain how being stateless assists with scaling the web.
  each request/response cycle is independent, protects the server

Cookies
What are they and what do they achieve?
  small files stored in the browser with identifying session information for websites
How are cookies implemented in the HTTP protocol?
  they just store the session id which is a key to the session data maintained on the server
Be able to walk through an example of a web site setting cookies, and subsequent requests carry the cookies.
  first time visiting a website, set-cookie response header, browser stores cookie data, sends cookie in following request headers, checked against website to identify browser by session id
Describe what the domain, expiry, and permanent/session properties of a cookie do.
  domain: what website the cookie is associated with, expiry: ?, permanent properties: session id?

Encryption
What is HTTPS?
  hypertext transfer protocol SECURE
  every request/response encrypted before transportation
  uses SSL (secure sockets layer) or TLS (transport layer security)
What is end-to-end encryption?
  public key encrypts message, private key needed to decrypt
  uses 256 bit keys
Describe how sign in pages and passwords are used on the web.
  when username and password match, session id is stored in browser
What is a man in the middle attack? How can they be prevented?
  session hijacking? reauthenticate at sensitive moments and invalidate old session id, have sessions expire, or use HTTPS

Caching
Describe how clients, servers, and proxies use HTTP caching.
What types of requests can be cached?

Security
What is an XSS attack, and how can they be prevented?
  Cross Site Scripting
  user submits raw html and javascript to the server via a form, browser will render it
  sanitize user input or escape all user input when displaying it
What is a CSRF attack, and how can they be prevented?

AJAX / HTTP via JavaScript
Describe what an AJAX request is. Where are they commonly used, and why? From HTTP point of view, how's an AJAX request different from a non-Ajax request?
  Asynchronous JavaScript and XML
  normal request/response processed without reloading page by client side javascript
Know that a server can detect an AJAX request by looking for the X-Requested-With header (which should be set to XMLHTTPRequest).
Describe the Same Origin Policy and its effects on applications.
  scripts from one site can only manipulate documents from the same origin (protocol, hostname, port)
What is CORS? What is it used for?
  Cross Origin Resource Sharing
  adds new headers which allow resources to be served to permitted other origin domains